course: CA4
exercise: 1
date: 2016-11-02
author: Rajeevan Vijayakumar, 2080123v
        Alan Munro, 1107481m

The status of the submission is that both circuits in the trafficLights.hs are completed, compile and they both produce the correct output. The logic for the circuits appear to be correct and they were both run using the main method given in the trafficLightsRun.hs which also runs and compile with no errors.

The circuits were tested using input data given in the trafficLightRun.hs. controller1 was tested by giving a list of integers where only the first integer is 1 and all the rest are zero to simulate the required function. The circuit was also tested to show what would happen if the reset button was pressed again after the initial press which showed that it reverted back to the initial state of green and from there on, it proceeds with the normal sequence of state changes.

controller2 was tested the same way as inputs are given as a pairs where the first pair is 1,0 to simulat the reset button press. A couple of pairs in, the second index in the pair is set to one, 0, 1, to simulate a walkrequest and after this the circuit performs the required functionality of going to amber then red for 3 cycles before returning to the initial state of green. At the same time this also showed that the walk outputs 1 when the circuit outputs red and wait is 1 when green outputs 1. Finally the test data also includes multiple walkrequest presses to simulate the incrementation of the counter as well as a reset press to reset the counter to 0.    

The approach used to design each circuit is as follows:

controller1: this circuit contains 9 different state changes where each new one from the required sequence of states is represented by a new line. Each state change is dictated by a delay flip flop where if the logic for it is true then it takes the new state else it is ignored. The truth logic is dictated by simple and2 and or2 logic gates and no black box circuits such as muxes were used. Since there were different states for the same colour such as red1, 2 and 3, a orw gate is used to represent all of them ie the previously mentioned red state changes will be represented by red.

controller2: this circuit is similar to the first controller but also contains an counter to count the number of times walkrequest is pressed ie passed in as an input along with a value for reset. The counter is reset to 0 if reset is 1 and the counter is incremented by 1 if the walkrequest is 1. The circuit also includes walk and wait outputs that are linked to the traffic light colours as well where if red is 1 then walk is also 1 and if green or amber are 1 then wait is 1.   




